[Applause]
so what does it mean for a machine to be
athletic we will demonstrate the concept
of machine athleticism and a research to
achieve it with the help of these flying
machines call quadrocopters or quads for
short
quads have been around for a long time
the reason that they're so popular these
days is because they're mechanically
simple but controlling the speeds of
these four propellers these machines can
roll pitch yaw and accelerate along
their common orientation onboard are
also a battery a computer various
sensors and wireless radios quads are
extremely agile of Civility comes at a
cost they are inherently unstable and
they need some form of automatic
feedback control in order to be able to
fly
so how did it just do that cameras on
the ceiling in a laptop serve as an
indoor Global Positioning System it's
used to locate objects in the space that
have these reflective markers on them
this data is then sent to another laptop
that is running estimation and control
algorithms which in turn sends commands
to the quad which is also running
estimation and control algorithms the
both of our research is algorithms
it's the magic that brings these
machines to life so how does one design
the algorithms that create a machine
athlete we use something broadly called
model-based design we first captured the
physics with the mathematical model of
how the machines behave we then use a
branch of mathematics called control
theory to analyze these models and also
to synthesize algorithms for controlling
them for example that's how we can make
the quad hover we first captured the
dynamics with a set of differential
equations we then manipulate these
equations with the help of control
theory to create algorithms that
stabilize the quad let me demonstrate
the strength of this approach suppose
that we want this quad to not only hover
but to also balance this pole with a
little bit of practice it's pretty
straightforward for a human being to do
this although we do have the advantage
of having two feet on the ground and the
use of our very versatile hands it
becomes a little bit more difficult when
I only have one foot on the ground and
when I don't use my hands notice how
this pole has a reflective marker on top
which means that it can be located in
the space
you can notice that this quad is making
fine adjustments to keep the poll
balanced how do we design the algorithms
to do this we added the mathematical
model of the poll to that of the quad
once we have a model of the combined
quad poll system we can use control
theory to create algorithms for
controlling it here you see that it's
stable and even if I give it a little
nudges it goes back to the nice balanced
position we can also augment the model
to include where we want the quad to be
in space using this pointer made out of
reflective markers I can point to where
I want the quad to be in space a fixed
distance away from me
the key to these acrobatic maneuvers is
algorithms designed with the help of
mathematical models and control theory
let's tell the quad to come back here
and let the pole drop and I will next
demonstrate the importance of
understanding physical models and the
workings of the physical world
notice how the quad lost altitude when I
put this glass of water on it
unlike the balancing pole I did not
include the mathematical model of the
glass in the system in fact the system
doesn't even know that the glass of
water is there like before I can use the
pointer to tell the quad where I want to
be in space okay you should be asking
yourself why doesn't the water fall out
of the glass two facts the first is that
gravity acts on all objects in the same
way the second is that the propellers
are all pointing in the same direction
of the glass pointing up you put these
two things together the net result is
that all sight forces on the glass are
small and are mainly dominated by
aerodynamic effects which of these
speeds are negligible that's why you
don't need to model the glass it
naturally doesn't spill no matter what
the quad does
the lesson here is that some high
performance tasks are easier than others
and that understanding the physics of
the problem tells you which ones are
easy and which ones are hard in this
instance carrying a glass of water is
easy balancing a pole is hard we've all
heard stories of athletes performing
feats while physically injured can a
machine also perform with extreme
physical damage conventional wisdom says
that you need at least four fixed motor
propeller pairs in order to fly because
there are four degrees of freedom to
control roll pitch yaw and acceleration
hexacopters and octocopter x' with six
and eight propellers can provide
redundancy but quadrocopters are much
more popular because they have the
minimum number of fixed motor propeller
pairs for or do they
if we analyze the mathematical model of
this machine with only two working
propellers we discovered that there's an
unconventional way to fly it
we relinquish control of yah but roll
pitch and acceleration can still be
controlled with algorithms that exploit
this new configuration mathematical
models tell us exactly when and why this
is possible in this instance this
knowledge allows us to design novel
machine architectures or to design
clever algorithms that gracefully handle
damage just like human athletes do
instead of building machines with
redundancy we can't help but hold our
breath when we watch a diver
somersaulting into the water or win a
vaulter is twisting in the air the
ground fast approaching well the diver
be able to pull off a repenter II will
the vaulters stick the landing suppose
we want the squad here to perform a
triple flip and finish off at the exact
same spot that it started this maneuver
is going to happen so quickly that we
can't use position feedback to correct
the motion during execution there simply
isn't enough time instead what the quad
can do is perform the maneuver blindly
observe how it finishes the maneuver and
then use that information to modify its
behavior so that the next flip is better
similar to the diver and the vaulter it
is only through repeated practice that
the maneuver can be learned and executed
to the highest standard
striking a moving ball is a necessary
skill in many sports how do we make a
machine do what an athlete does
seemingly without effort
this quad has a racket strapped on to
its head with a sweet spot roughly the
size of an apple so not too large the
following calculations are made every 20
milliseconds or 50 times per second
we first figure out where the ball is
going we then next calculate how the
quad should hit the ball so that it
flies to where it was thrown from third
a trajectory is planned that carries the
quad from its current state to the
impact point with the ball fourth we
only execute 20 milliseconds worth of
that strategy 20 milliseconds later the
whole process is repeated until the quad
strikes the ball
machines cannot only perform dynamic
maneuvers on their own that can do it
collectively these three quads are
cooperatively carrying a Skynet
they perform an extremely dynamic and
collective maneuver to launch the ball
back to me notice that at full extension
these quads are vertical
in fact when fully extended this is
roughly 5 times greater than what a
bungee jumper feels at the end of their
launch the algorithms to do this are
very similar to what the single quad
used to hit the ball back to me
mathematical models are used to
continuously replan a cooperative
strategy 50 times per second everything
we have seen so far has been about the
machines and their capabilities what
happens when we couple this machine
athleticism with that of a human being
what I have in front of me is a
commercial gesture sensor mainly used in
gaming it can recognize what my various
body parts are doing in real time
similar to the pointer that I used
earlier we can use this as inputs to the
system we now have a natural way of
interacting with the Roth lettis ism of
these quads with my gestures
[Applause]
interaction doesn't have to be virtual
it can be physical take this quad for
example it's trying to stay at a fixed
point in space if I try to move it out
of the way it fights me and moves back
to where it wants to be we can change
this behavior however we can use
mathematical models to estimate the
force that I'm applying to the quad once
we know this force we can also change
the laws of physics as far as the quad
is concerned of course here the quad is
behaving as if it were in a viscous
fluid we now have an intimate way of
interacting with a machine I will use
this new capability to position this
camera carrying quad to the appropriate
location for filming the remainder of
this demonstration
so we can physically interact with these
quads and we can change the laws of
physics let's have a little bit of fun
with this for what you will see next
these quads will initially behave as if
they were on Pluto as time goes on
gravity will be increased until we're
all back on planet earth but I assure
you we won't get there okay here goes
[Music]
you're all thinking now these guys are
having way too much fun and you're
probably also asking yourself why
exactly are they building machine
athletes some conjecture that the role
of play in the animal kingdom is to hone
skills and develop capabilities others
think that it has more of a social role
that it's used to bind the group
similarly we use the analogy of sports
and athleticism to create new algorithms
for machines to push them to their
limits what impact will this beat a
machine have on our way of life like all
our past creations and innovations they
may be used to improve the human
condition or they may be misused and
abused this is not a technical choice we
are faced with it's a social one let's
make the right choice
the choice that brings out the best in
the future of machines just like
athleticism and sports can bring out the
best in us let me introduce you to the
wizards behind the green curtain they're
the current members of the fly machinery
search team
kvitko Giuliano daddy brochure nene
Markuson Sergey Lu portion mark molar
and Robinette Ritz look out for them
they're destined for great things
thank you